README.md, before:

# Diglin_Username #

Magento module which allows your customers to use a username and not only the email address as identifier

## Features

- Login with a username and/or email, it can be done from frontend during checkout or getting access to the customer account
- Save a username from frontend (register account or checkout process) or from backend by editing a customer account
- Check that the username doesn't already exists
- Allow you to deactivate temporary customer account from Customer Management page (bonus functionality from version > Magento 1.4.x). The user will be blocked if the option in the customer backend is set to no.
- The default templates override some customer and checkout views to adapt display for login pages, checkout process and account edition in frontend. If you have a customized template, please check the layout file username.xml and compare with your template to use or adapt to your situation.
- When you have already customers in your system and you do a first install of this plugin, a username will be generated for each customer based on a part of his email and a unique id. (e.g. email address is "developer@localhost.com" -> username is "developer1235467")
- Configurable options to define what kind of username to support: only letters, only digits, both or default (digits, letters and special characters '-_')
- Configurable options to set the maximum and minium string length
- Display Username of each customer in the Customer Management Grid
- Allow or not the customer to edit the username in My Account in frontend
- Compatible and tested with Magento version >=1.4.2 until 1.7.x

## Installation

- You can install the current stable version via [MagentoConnect](http://www.magentocommerce.com/magento-connect/username-support-login-register-checkout-by-diglin.html)
- Or you can copy the files from the folders of this repository to the same folders of your installation

## Documentation

- Please, configure the module go to the backend and follow the menu System > Configuration > Diglin > Username
- You can put the username into your email template, you can put the following string {{var customer.username}} in the email templates: account_new.html and account_new_confirmation.html
- If you have a 404 error page, try to login/logout and go back to the configuration page. Or save again the Administrator role in System > Permissions > Role
- IMPORTANT NOTE: check if you want to have the customer account global or per website, see in System > Configuration > Customers > Customer Configuration > Account Sharing Options
  If set to "Per website", the username will be unique per each website
  If set to "Global", the username will be unique for the whole website

## Important

If you have an important quantity of customers in your database, please try this module on a development environment first. All old customers will get a random username. The process may be long during the installation.

## Deinstall

- If you used MagentoConnect, you may use the deinstall process of the Magento Connect Backend page view of your Magento installation. 
- Otherwise remove the files following the hierarchy of the folders of this repository
- Then get access to your database and do the followings queries:
  Do the following sql query in your database after to have done a backup, please check the table name with your database:

`DELETE FROM eav_attribute WHERE attribute_code LIKE '%username%';`
`ALTER TABLE sales_flat_quote DROP COLUMN 'customer_username';`
`ALTER TABLE sales_flat_order DROP COLUMN 'customer_username';`

It's important to know if you create account from the backend, check which Website where you want to save the account

## Author

* Sylvain Rayé
* http://www.sylvainraye.com/
* [@sylvainraye](https://twitter.com/sylvainraye)
* [Follow me on github!](https://github.com/diglin)
 
## Donation

[Invite me for a drink](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=Y66QHLU5VX5BC)

Commit message:

Add modman and instruction to use it

README.md, after:

# Diglin_Username #

Magento module which allows your customers to use a username and not only the email address as identifier

## Features

- Login with a username and/or email, it can be done from frontend during checkout or getting access to the customer account
- Save a username from frontend (register account or checkout process) or from backend by editing a customer account
- Check that the username doesn't already exists
- Allow you to deactivate temporary customer account from Customer Management page (bonus functionality from version > Magento 1.4.x). The user will be blocked if the option in the customer backend is set to no.
- The default templates override some customer and checkout views to adapt display for login pages, checkout process and account edition in frontend. If you have a customized template, please check the layout file username.xml and compare with your template to use or adapt to your situation.
- When you have already customers in your system and you do a first install of this plugin, a username will be generated for each customer based on a part of his email and a unique id. (e.g. email address is "developer@localhost.com" -> username is "developer1235467")
- Configurable options to define what kind of username to support: only letters, only digits, both or default (digits, letters and special characters '-_')
- Configurable options to set the maximum and minium string length
- Display Username of each customer in the Customer Management Grid
- Allow or not the customer to edit the username in My Account in frontend
- Compatible and tested with Magento version >=1.4.2 until 1.7.x

## Installation

### Via Magento Connect
- You can install the current stable version via [MagentoConnect](http://www.magentocommerce.com/magento-connect/username-support-login-register-checkout-by-diglin.html)

### Via modman
- Install [modman](https://github.com/colinmollenhour/modman)
- Use the command from your Magento installation folder: `modman clone https://github.com/diglin/Diglin_Username.git`

### Manually
- You can copy the files from the folders of this repository to the same folders of your installation

## Documentation

- Please, configure the module go to the backend and follow the menu System > Configuration > Diglin > Username
- You can put the username into your email template, you can put the following string {{var customer.username}} in the email templates: account_new.html and account_new_confirmation.html
- If you have a 404 error page, try to login/logout and go back to the configuration page. Or save again the Administrator role in System > Permissions > Role
- IMPORTANT NOTE: check if you want to have the customer account global or per website, see in System > Configuration > Customers > Customer Configuration > Account Sharing Options
  If set to "Per website", the username will be unique per each website
  If set to "Global", the username will be unique for the whole website

## Important

If you have an important quantity of customers in your database, please try this module on a development environment first. All old customers will get a random username. The process may be long during the installation.

## Deinstall

- If you used MagentoConnect, you may use the deinstall process of the Magento Connect Backend page view of your Magento installation.
- Otherwise remove the files following the hierarchy of the folders of this repository
- Then get access to your database and do the followings queries:
  Do the following sql query in your database after to have done a backup, please check the table name with your database:

`DELETE FROM eav_attribute WHERE attribute_code LIKE '%username%';`
`ALTER TABLE sales_flat_quote DROP COLUMN 'customer_username';`
`ALTER TABLE sales_flat_order DROP COLUMN 'customer_username';`

It's important to know if you create account from the backend, check which Website where you want to save the account

## Author

* Sylvain Rayé
* http://www.sylvainraye.com/
* [@sylvainraye](https://twitter.com/sylvainraye)
* [Follow me on github!](https://github.com/diglin)

## Donation

[Invite me for a drink](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=Y66QHLU5VX5BC)
